feeding those down in a ceremony away
today is a very auspicious day so they
are feeding the cows to gain more you
know blazing some karma better karma
better
cows are revered in India because they
give milk freely it's taboo to kill or
even injure them so I was surprised to
discover India is now among the biggest
exporters of beef and leather in the
world can poor is the center of the
trade which is worth around 3 billion
pounds a year as we drove into the city
they were treated animal hides
everywhere I looked
tanneries here claim all the heights
come from water buffalo which aren't
revered by most Hindus but religious
activists and animal rights campaigners
say that most of them actually come from
an illicit trade in slaughtered sacred
cows
[Music]
abra and i went to visit a sanctuary
known as a cow shelter we were meeting
porvoo joshi pura from the international
animal rights group PETA
hi pour-over namaste so I'm gonna love
you to meet you what is this place
this is a rescue center for cows who are
saved from slaughter this is an area
where cows are killed there they're
transported illegally under the cover of
darkness
you know crammed on into trucks on top
of one another and they're taken
illegally to slaughterhouses so two
houses yes I ate this I thought this was
not something that was legally
permissible let alone religiously in
India it's not it's not there's a up to
a seven year imprisonment fine if you
get caught slaughtering cows but it
happens nonetheless and so when the
police get a tip-off that from a caring
citizen that cows are being transported
to slaughter they catch them and they
bring them here to this safe place I
mean this is a land where compassion for
animals is considered a major value I
mean it's a very basic value it's a
religious code as well it's a religious
code as well and yet because of the
religion it's become important just
culturally and yet cows are being killed
in this country to supply people who are
buying leather elsewhere who's buying
the letters that the India is exporting
them people in the UK people in the
European Union the EU by sixty percent
of the leather that gets sold out of
India there's a few people who are
fattening their wallets from the leather
industry things are happening here which
are not allowed to happen in the UK or
in the EU or in some other Western
country you know the way that animals
are treated here is not allowed to
happen there
some British and American companies have
banned Indian leather because of
production concerns but it remains a
huge business that has a direct impact
on the Ganges many tanneries here use a
toxic cocktail to treat Heinz that
includes sulfuric acid and
cancer-causing chemicals environmental
groups say the wastewater from the
tanneries is then channeled into the
river
you